chapter1: What is a distributed system? (p.2)
chapter1: What are the two characteristics of a distributed system? (p.2)
chapter1: What four important goals should be met to make building a distributed system worth the effort? (p.7)
chapter1: What types of distribution transparency is there? (p.8)
chapter1: What is middleware in the context of distributed systems?
chapter1: What is an open distributed system and what can be done to achieve openness?
chapter1: What is scalability with regards to distributed systems and how can distributed systems be scaled?
chapter1: What are some pitfalls when designing distributed systems?
chapter1: What are some types of distributed systems?
chapter1: What is high performance distributed computing?
chapter1: What are distributed information systems?
chapter1: What is a pervasive system?
chapter2: what is an architectural style and how is it formulated?
chapter2: what are the three traditional layer views?
chapter2: What are an wrapper or adapter w.r.t. middleware? And how can these be organized?
chapter2: What are an interceptor?  Fig 2.14.
chapter2: Describe an centralized system architecture. p.76
chapter2: In a client-server architecture, what does it mean that an operation is idempotent?
chapter2: How can a centralized system architecture be tiered? Give an example for each tier.
chapter2: Describe decentralized organisations (p2p systems)
chapter2: what is an structured peer-to-peer system?
chapter2: Describe an unstructured p2p system.
chapter2: Describe two ways of searching for specific data in an unstructured p2p system. 
chapter2: What are policy-based search methods?
chapter2: What are Hierarchically organized p2p networks? Give an example of such network.
chapter2: What is an edge-server system?
chapter2: What is collaborative distributed systems?
chapter2: Describe NFS (Network File System).
chapter2: What are the 4 main architecture types?
chapter2: What are components, connectors and interfaces in system-architecture? 
chapter2: Describe a layered system architecture.
chapter2: Describe a object-based system architecture.
chapter2: Describe a resource-based architecture.
chapter2: What is the difference between vertical and horizontal distributed achitectures?
chapter2: Describe a pub-sub architecture.
chapter2: What is a three-tiered client-server architecture?
chapter2: Not every node in a p2p network should become super-peer. What are reasonable requirements that a super-peer should meet?
chapter1: Why is it sometimes hard to hide the occurence of and recovery from a failure in a distributed system?
chapter2: What is coordination in a distributed system?
chapter2: Explain temporal and referential coupling.
chapter2: What are the four key characters in RESTful architectures
chapter2: Many people like RESTful approaches because the interface to a service is so simple. What is the catch about it?
chapter2: Can you give an example of a traditional three-layered architectural view?
chapter3: what is virtualization?
chapter3: explain software Process, Thread and Processor.
chapter3: explain context switching (w.rt Processor and Thread).
chapter3: How can a server be constructed?
chapter3: Give tree different levels of virtualization.
chapter3: Describe process, native and hosted virtual machines (monitor).
chapter3: What are privileged and nonpriviliged instrctions. Name the two special instructions.
chapter3: "for any conventional computer, a vmm may be constructd if the set of sensitive instr. for that computer is a subset of the set of privileged instr.". What is the problem with this and what are some solution?
chapter3: Distinguish application-level and middleware-level solutions. See figure 3.10 p.124
chapter3: Discuss benefits and disadvantages with a thin clients architecture for a distributed system
chapter3: Reasons to migrate code?
chapter3: Explain Push (code shipping) and Pull (code fetching) protocols in weak mobility
chapter3: What are the disadvantages and advantages of stateful servers?
chapter3: Is it possible to interrupt a server once it has accepted (or is in the process of accepting) a service request?
chapter3: Does connection-oriented communication fit into a stateless design?
chapter3:Having the first tier, in a three-tiered architecture handle all communication from/to the cluster may lead to a bottleneck. What could be a solution to this?
chapter3: Migration in heterogeneous systems can cause problems such as the target machine may not be suitable to execute the migrated code. And the definition of process/thread/processor context is highly dependent on local hardware, operating system, and runtime system. There's only one solution to this, what is it? (slides)
chapter3: X Window System designates a user's terminal as a hosting server, while the application is referred to as the client. Does this make sense? (past exam question)
chapter3: The X protocol suffers from scalability problems. How can these problems be tackled? 
chapter4: What are the layers of the OSI-stack and what are the drawbacks of the OSI-model?
chapter4: 	What is the middleware layer?
chapter4: 	What types of communication do we have?
chapter4: 	What is an RPC?
chapter4: 	What are the basic steps of an RPC operation?
chapter4: 	What must be done to pass parameters in a RPC call and why must it be done?
chapter4: 	What is an asynchronous RPC and when is it useful?
chapter4: 	What is multicast RPC?
chapter4: How does message-oriented communication differ from RPCs?
chapter4: What is transient asynchronous communication?
chapter4: Briefly describe message-oriented persistent communication through message-oriented middle-ware.
chapter4: Why was the Advanced Message Queuing protocol created?
chapter5: What is naming used for in distributed systems?
chapter5: what is an access point?
chapter5: what does it mean when a name is location independent?
chapter5: Which properties does an identifier have?
chapter5: How can flat names be resolved?
chapter5: Explain DNS, how does this system lookup?
chapter5: Describe distributed hash table (Chord 😍😝).
chapter5: How can one solve erratic message transfers? Give three solutions.
chapter5: What is a hierarchical location scheme? Describe an approach to it.
chapter5: What are name spaces? 
chapter5: How can name spaces be distributed?
chapter5: What are the principles of name resolution (recursive and iterative).
chapter5: What are Hilbert space-filling curves?
chapter6: In time synchronization, what are the differences between "The Berkeley Algorithm" and "The Time Network Protocol"?
chapter6: How can clocks be synchronized over a wireless network? 
chapter6: How can tokens be used to elect super-peers in peer-to-peer networks?
chapter6: What is the main principle behind logical clocks (eg. Lamport Clocks)?
chapter6: Describe a decentralized system for mutual exclusion.
chapter5: What is an identifier and which properties does it have?
chapter5: What is a pure name?
chapter5: What is broadcasting?
chapter5: What is the Address resolution protocol (ARP)?
chapter5: What is meant by forwarding pointers?
chapter5: What are home-based approaches and when are they used?
chapter5: How can network proximity be exploited to get rid of problems like erratic message transfers?
chapter5: What is hierarchal location services (HLS)?
chapter5: How is lookup and insertion done in a HSL tree?
chapter5: How is scalability in an HLS and what can be done to scale such a system?
chapter5: What is structured naming?
chapter5: How do you resolve a name in a given name space?
chapter5: What is a closure mechanism?
chapter5: What is name linking and what forms of linking are there?
chapter5: What is mounting?
chapter5: How can a distributed name-space be implemented?
chapter5: What are the two methods of resolving a name and how are they done?
chapter5: What are some scalability issues in distributed name-spacing and what can be done to counter it?
chapter5: What is attribute-based naming?
chapter5: How can attribute-naming systems (directory services) be implemented?
chapter5: What is LDAP?
chapter5: What is a distributed index?
chapter6: How does a computer keep track of time?
chapter6: What is clock skew?
chapter6: What is UTC?
chapter6: What is the goal of clock synchronization and what types of synchronization do we have?
chapter6: What is clock drift?
chapter6: How can the network time protocol (NTP) be used to adjust time between two machines?
chapter6: How can the Berkeley algorithm be used to keep track of time without UTC?
chapter6: What is the reference broadcast system (RBS)?
chapter6: What is a happened-before relationship?
chapter6: What is a logical clock?
chapter6: Where should the logical clocks be implemented?
chapter6: How can Lamport’s logical clocks be used for mutual exclusion?
chapter6: What is a vector clock?
chapter6: How can causally ordered multicasting be done?
chapter6: What is mutual exclusion in a distributed system?
chapter6: What are two basic mutual exclusion techniques in distributed systems?
chapter6: How can permission-based schemes be implemented?
chapter6: What is Ricart’s and Agrawala’s distributed algorithm for mutual exclusion?
chapter6: How does the ring token algorithm for mutual exclusion work?
chapter6: How can a decentralized mutual exclusion algorithm be implemented?
chapter6: What isan election algorithm and what assumptions need to be made in an election algorithm?
chapter6: How does the bully algorithm work?
chapter6: How can election be done on a ring structure?
chapter6: What is the goal of election in wireless environments and how can election be done in such environments?
chapter6: What are locations system?
chapter6: How can position be calculated?
chapter6: How can Global positioning system (GPS) be used to find the position of a node?
chapter6: When cannot GPS be used to find a position and what alternatives do we have?
chapter6: How is positioning done in a centralized system?
chapter6: How can positioning be done in a decentralized system?
chapter6: What is event matching?
chapter6: How can event matching be done in a centralized manner?
chapter6: How can brokers route notifications to the appropriate set of subscribers?
chapter6: What is gossip-based coordination?
chapter6: What is aggregation?
chapter6: What is a peer-sampling service (PSS)? 
